This is a really
precarious moment
in Israel's history right now,
as I'm sure you and I agree.
Israel's been at war now
for more than 50 days against Hamas.
Given what happened back on October 7th,
three days
into this temporary truce right now,
how meaningful is it, Mr.
President, right now
for Israelis to see
at least some good news,
some of the hostages
being reunited with their families?
It is extremely important because we see
we see human beings who are in the abyss
and without knowing their whereabouts
and their fate,
as well as the fact that they themselves
are totally secluded
and disconnected
from the rest of the world.
The fact that you see young girls,
a young boy
or a grandmother is walking soul
and going to Israeli hospitals
and coming back and meeting
their families is a huge emotional storm.
And something that gives us a happiness.
But of course, happiness
with a lot of sorrow it
because there are at least 200
hostages still held out there in Hamas
under Hamas duress,
somewhere in in bunkers somewhere.
And without knowing what they are,
what the how they live
and what their whereabouts.
Some family torn apart.
Most of the hostages that were released
have still family members left behind,
meaning tearing their families apart.
And as you can see
throughout the last few days,
Hamas is threatening on now psychology
with a kind of a
passive aggressive approach
which wants to drive us as a nation crazy
because of the emotions failed
and because of the extreme pain
and worry of so many relatives
to their friends
and family who are out there in Gaza.
As you
know, Israel's
defense minister, Yoav Gallant,
said yesterday, and I'm quoting him now,
any further negotiations
will be held under fire, end quote.
Is he effectively closing the door
to extending the truce?
So we have to remember that
there are a few more days
of release of the hostages
while Israel is releasing terrorists
who are charged
and present
for telling activities, including
and taking
and lives of people
or threatening to take lives of people.
And this is a very gruesome process.
So I don't want to speak
about the next step,
but it is clear to us
that if we want to prevent
further turmoil against Israel from Gaza
and change the future of the Middle East
and the way the Palestinians
have some hope,
the only way to do it in a humane way
in order to
to protect the human values in the region
is by uprooting Hamas.
And that will
lead to the fact
that we have to take further action
and undermine Hamas's
military capabilities.
I'm anxious to get your thought.
If Hamas agrees to another day,
another few days of this truce
in order to release
more Israeli hostages,
should Israel accept that?
So that is already being negotiated.
First of all,
it was agreed in the original agreement,
which has been violated
constantly by Hamas,
but still implemented piecemeal,
that if they bring
another ten prisoners on. So
the exact number and forces
in the agreement itself,
there will be an extension
of another day of humanitarian pause.
So that is already agreed.
They can definitely
bring many more hostages
and release them.
They they kind of said
that they don't know
where they on the whereabouts are.
That looks to us totally false
because they've been controlling Gaza
to the last iota
for the last 20 odd years
in a very cruel regime
that didn't let anybody move
without their permission.
So that is why I truly hope
that in this instance,
they will release more and more
and they will get more
and more humanitarian pauses
as to what happens afterwards,
it is clear that we intend
to complete the task,
meaning undermine
the military capabilities of Hamas
as an entity and enable
a different future
for those who live near the border,
for Israelis
and Palestinians,
for the ability
to undermine this empire of evil
which operates from Tehran
and of course, impacts the entire region.
So I just want to be precise, Mr.
President,
in order to get more
Israeli hostages released,
do you think Israel should agree
to extend the truce?
So it depends.
So far, the agreement speaks about.
The agreement was for four.
Days,
but it says specifically
that any additional ten
or so hostages released,
there would be another day
of humanitarian pause.
And that is what is being
implemented as to what happens next.
There is a Qatari delegation
in Israel today
and I think they are talking
to the relevant authorities
in the
Israeli government as to the next phase.
So you are open to extending the truce.
So, again,
the way you interpret and interpret
the word truce is complicated.
We've already agreed
we made it public
that if
and above that for the initial four days,
there's not
a release of further prisoners
ten per day or something of 1011.
I don't have the exact numbers.
We will extend the humanitarian pause
and meaning the truce.
That's the way you call it. A pause.
Yes. Yeah.
And but our clear intention is to go in
and complete the job
because we must not enable this
base of terror on this
platform of terror,
which was taken over by a cruel code,
a time 2007 by Hamas to continue.
And how would you expect
anybody who went through these
horrific torments and the horrific scene
and this barbaric attack on October 7th
with rape and torture
and beheading and shopping and
and mutilating bodies
and abducting hostages,
how do you expect
anybody to go back there
if there's no complete
and to this threat?
So let's talk a little bit
about looking down the road
after this war with Hamas.
You have said Israel and I'm
quoting now,
can't leave a vacuum in Gaza.
So will Gaza be governed by a revitalized
Palestinian Authority
as President Biden has proposed?
So this is something really important
to go into and discuss
because people have to be serious
if we want to prevent
a recurrence of further terrible
if we want to go into a stable horizon
in the region,
we have to be lucid about it.
Is there any force
in the world, in the region,
which is willing to take over
and run the place
in terms of the security
and preventing further whores,
sadistic and barbaric jihadist activity?
Somebody has to say who it's going to be
when there are nations
who say we won't have boots on the ground
when there are nations and say,
of course not.
We leave the dirty job to you guys.
So when Israel says right
now, the security
and well-being of this place
in terms of this security element,
meaning fighting terror
and forcing law and order adjudicating
and so forth,
will stay in Israeli hands
until there is an agreement.
One has to build the alternative.
The alternative
needs to be discussed in there in various
key places
and see what's next in the interim,
there has to be a major humanitarian aid
and a major humanitarian effort
in this respect.
For example, I commend the hospital,
which is being built now
in Rafah by the United Arab Emirates.
There are other countries
who are making similar efforts
and we commend them as well.
But the most advanced projects so far,
for example,
for another
new hospital in the Gaza
Strip is done by United Arab Emirates.
And yesterday
the trucks came in in order
to build this hospital in Rafah.
So there should be an overall effort
to make something that makes sense for
the future
on the well-being
of Israelis and Palestinians.
What should the governing authority
of Gaza be after after this Israel
Hamas war
if it's not the Palestinian Authority?
I've been saying it long,
many, many times.
And I'll say it again
this is not only a war between
Israel and Hamas.
This is actually a war that defends
the real values of liberal
and democratic countries,
all countries who believe
in the rules
of the family of nations,
as opposed to an empire of evil,
which is an empire of jihadis
which believe only in eradicating
all of us out of here,
not only Jews, but also Christians.
And the next will be Europe
and the United States.
So that is what the war is all about.
And therefore,
how you come out of the war, meaning
how do you make sure
that what will come out of the war
will promise
regional security
and stability, will promise peace
or, let's say, seizing of fire and tell
this is the key
and this has to be analyzed
clearly and in a very punctual way,
not slogans.
I heard President Biden's
speech on Friday, and from his vacation,
and I.
I truly welcome these words.
I mean, these were important words
as he spoke
about the fact
that there is an empire of evil,
which wants to undermine
all the peace processes in the region.
It is clear
that what Hamas did under
the instructions of Iran,
is to undermine the ability
of further peace agreements
following the Abraham
Accords, also peace agreement
with Saudi Arabia, and also
and offering a huge, huge connection
between Europe all the
way down to Australia.